Topic:- Process States in Operating System.

Expected Outcome:- We will know about the Process States and all the types of Process States.

Q). What is Process States?

Ans:- Process goes through different states throughout the life cycle which are called process states.

Q). Types of Process States.

Ans:- There are seven types of Process States in Operating System.

      1. New:- A program which is going to be picked up by the OS into the main memory is called a new process.
      
      2. Ready:- Whenever a process is created, it directly enters in the ready state, in which, it waits for the CPU to be assigned. 
         The OS picks the new processes from the secondary memory and put all of them in the main memory.
         
      3. Running:- One of the processes from the ready state will be chosen by the OS depending upon the scheduling algorithm.
         Hence, if we have only one CPU in our system, the number of running processes for a particular time will always be one. 
         If we have n processors in the system then we can have n processes running simultaneously.
         
      4. Block or wait:- From the Running state, a process can make the transition to the block or wait state depending upon the 
         scheduling algorithm or the intrinsic behavior of the process.
         
         When a process waits for a certain resource to be assigned or for the input from the user then the OS move this process to 
         the block or wait state and assigns the CPU to the other processes.
         
      5. Completion or termination:-When a process finishes its execution, it comes in the termination state. All the context of the process
         (Process Control Block) will also be deleted the process will be terminated by the Operating system.
         
      6. Suspend ready:- A process in the ready state, which is moved to secondary memory from the main memory due to lack of the resources 
         (mainly primary memory) is called in the suspend ready state.
         
      7. Suspend wait:-Similar to suspend ready but uses the process which was performing I/O operation and lack of main memory caused them 
         to move to secondary memory. When work is finished it may go to suspend ready.
